# Predict-Movie-Profitability-Using-Machine-Learning-Techniques
Scraped movie information from IMBD and built ML models to predict box office

Movies have become an indispensable part of our entertainment life today. As a global 43-billion-dollar market, the movie industry attracts a lot of investors (McClintock, 2020). However, investing in a movie is a risky move because 80% of the movies lose money according to Forbes (2019). Predicting the public’s reaction to a new product in terms of revenue is becoming an emerging field of machine learning. Especially for a huge market like the movie industry, knowing in advance the profitability is crucial to investors to help people associated with this business for avoiding investment risks. 

This project attempts to identify factors related to movie profitability in the United States which are then used to develop a model that predicts movie profitability. The data exploration shows that 11 features can be used for model building. The report then delves into 2 methods, the random forest and the neural networks. Both numerical profit for each movie and investment categories are predicted. The results indicate that investment categories forecast yields a more accurate prediction while both methods produced similar outcomes.

By using the model and analysis, the report suggests an elaborate action plan for movie investors to reduce investment risk. They should leverage more on their domain knowledge instead of the past public information. Also, user reviews, critic reviews and star power are the most important factors concluded from the random forest models.
